John's in Washington DC John so a little
bit more detail now uh on the story
three drones um shot down uh over Iran
what are you hearing from us officials
there if anything at this
stage well Darren this all happened late
Thursday night it's now about 2:00 in
the morning Washington time uh so the
administration is certainly up there are
people at the Pentagon at the state
department at the White House who are
surely fielding all of this information
right now but they haven't come out with
any statement so far we do expect that
in the coming hours but us officials
have confirmed to us media that this was
an Israeli strike that the US did have
warning on Thursday that within 24 to 48
hours there would be a strike and uh we
were told that in the in the previous
couple of days that it was likely this
would happen as after Passover which
starts on Monday so this is sooner than
that and there there was discussion
between the US and Israel of what the
options might be some of those options
Were Striking Israeli Pro I'm sorry
Iranian proxies outside of Iran and
while the strike seems to have been
fairly limited it was on Iranian soil so
the Israelis appear to have taken a m a
middle ground on that but the important
Point here I think is that the US had
been counseling both sides to deescalate
this conflict and Israel went ahead with
a strike in any case uh John I mean
would the Biden Administration have
received any warning from the Israelis
that they were about to carry out some
kind of retali to strike against
Iran yes the US is definitely the
biggest sponsor of the Israeli military
program donating millions of dollars
each year for that and there are strings
to that uh and generally the israelies
would tell the US and indeed we are told
by us officials that that did occur that
the us was given notice the Us official
says that the US didn't endorse or
support this effort the US didn't
participate in it but that it was made
aware Lloyd Austin the defense secretary
spoke to yav Galant his counterpart in
Israel earlier in the day we don't know
if that's where uh the US got the notice
that this strike was coming but uh it
was certainly discussed because the US
has been warning Israel that whatever it
does it should not escalate this
conflict President Biden has has been
saying take the win uh to Benjamin
Netanyahu and that would uh would
apparently seem to mean don't launch a
strike or don't launch a major strike so
uh I think in the coming hours we'll
find out just how big that strike was
and whether that is likely to mean that
there will be another response from Iran
which of course would be an escalation
which is the last thing the Biden
Administration wants Daren all right
John hendron live for us there in
Washington DC John thank you for that